# Diacrino

Source files for the Diacrino text conversion application.

## Abstract

Diacrino is a web application that allows you to type diacritical marks easier by using a simple shorthand.

## Description

The program is a pretty simple text substitution loop. You enter text like `u+ber fac]ade parle/` and it converts it to text like `über façade parlé`.

I originally wrote it as an alternative to TypeGreek.com, which had some features I wanted to change. For one thing, I wanted to be able to edit the shorthand text after it had been converted, so that I could correct combinations of diacritics without having to retype the whole letter. To make this easy, Diacrino has separate text areas for input and output, which ends up also having the effect of making the back-end parsing a whole lot simpler than the method used by TypeGreek.com.

There are a few different converters in the program. In some cases, the paradigm is doubled depending on whether you want precomposed characters or not. Obviously combining diacritics offer a lot more combinations, but they don't always render in an acceptable way.

- Greek (Precomposed)
- Latin (Precomposed)
- Greek (Combining)
- Latin (Combining)
- Greek Musical Vocal Notation
- Greek Musical Instrumental Notation

Converters planned for future versions:

- Arabic 
- Devanagari
- Avesta
- Old Persian
- Various Runic 

## Extending Diacrino

The program is pretty easy to extend; just add a new `Language` object that provides its own converter, description, example text, and helpfile data. My converters mostly just iterate through lists of `[before: string, after: string]` tuples, arranged for maximal munch, but your `convert` function can have any algorithm you want.

(The rest of this file is automatically generated Angular boilerplate.)

## Development server

To start a local development server, run:

```bash
ng serve
```

Once the server is running, open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload whenever you modify any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Angular CLI includes powerful code scaffolding tools. To generate a new component, run:

```bash
ng generate component component-name
```

For a complete list of available schematics (such as `components`, `directives`, or `pipes`), run:

```bash
ng generate --help
```

## Building

To build the project run:

```bash
ng build
```

This will compile your project and store the build artifacts in the `dist/` directory. By default, the production build optimizes your application for performance and speed.

## Running unit tests

To execute unit tests with the [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io) test runner, use the following command:

```bash
ng test
```

## Running end-to-end tests

For end-to-end (e2e) testing, run:

```bash
ng e2e
```

Angular CLI does not come with an end-to-end testing framework by default. You can choose one that suits your needs.

## Additional Resources

For more information on using the Angular CLI, including detailed command references, visit the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.dev/tools/cli) page.
